### March 2022 Meeting of the Software Carpentry Curriculum Advisory Committee

Date/Time: 2022-03-21 at 15:00 UTC (convert to your time-zone)
Video meeting link: https://meet.google.com/udf-rggm-qxf

Github issues with prior discussion can be found here: https://github.com/swcarpentry/curriculum-advisors/issues

Roles:
	* Facilitator: Byron
	* Notetaker: Annajiat
	* Timekeeper: Rich

The responsibilities of the three meeting roles are described here

Attendees:
	* Committee Members:
		* Byron (facilitator)
		* Annajiat Alim Rasel (notetaker)
		* Menglan Xiang
		* Erin Becker
		* James Balamuta
		* Rich McCue (timekeeper)
	* Non-members:
		* Toby Hodges (Director of Curriculum)
		* Erin Becker (Associate Director)

*Agenda Item #1: Welcome to the SWC CAC and Introductions (10 minutes)

Rich: From Canada. 
Menglan: Postdoc at Stanford, South Bay, Cal. Postdoc, vascular biology, single cell sequencing techniques, chocolate truffles.
Toby: Director, curriculum & member, core team, carpentries, Heidelberg, Germany. Cruncy chocolate bar from adbury.
James: Visiting asst prof. Dot
Annajiat: Senior lecturer. Fan of open source. Secretary today. Snickers (thanks Erin).
Erin: California.


*Agenda Item #2: Accepting new lessons into the SWC lesson collection
Toby Hodges will give a 5 minute introduction
https://github.com/swcarpentry/curriculum-advisors/issues/6
Long term discussion topic:
may not be ready to make decisions right now
what committee would like to do interms of establishing processes or requirements for new lessons to join th ecollection of software carpentry. New lesson developers expresed interest  to make lesson that they are working to be official lesson. programming lesson that isn't python or r. including options for additional programming languages. Excited about CAC being re sestalished, might be able to have conversations about decision making . what do incubator people need to do
what should be the requirements for lessons to come out of incubator, 
from community developed to official one.
what would the process look like 
how would we revreuit maintainers
how to onboard instructor communithy
programming languges, other version control systems
identifying prioritites


	* What should the requirements be for a lesson to move from the Incubator into Software Carpentry?
	* What would that process look like, in terms of Maintainer recruitment, onboarding for the Instructor community, etc
	* What is the CAC's vision for how the Software Carpentry lesson collection will evolve over the coming years? Can you identify priorities for new lessons to be developed and/or existing lessons to be updated to address upcoming topics?

annajiat: process is first priority

james:
polyglot lesson might not be a good idea.
code tabs through quarto
can have r/python
frameworks 

Rich: need to get sense of what community would like

Menglan
its a good start
have few lessons in mind. would be great to incorporate in curriculum.
agree to multiple 

Byron: need to avoid orphan lessons

Rich/Byron:
choosing default python lesson and retiring lessons

Byron:
Break down by creating issues and subissues in GitHub to continue discussiong  on the processes
and refer to the earlier issue

james: is there any example of community who are looking forward to 

Toby: 
Possible incubator
https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/julia-novice


*Agenda Item #3: Replacing assertions with exceptions
TODO: Notes for item #2

Votes:
keep unchanged: 
replace mostly but keep some example: x
completely replace: 

James:
https://github.com/swcarpentry/python-novice-inflammation/issues/979
PR: https://github.com/swcarpentry/python-novice-inflammation/pull/981

Toby:
covering both might cause cognitive load based on instructor training 
almost all lessons have too much materials

Rich McCue: agree that cognitive load needs to be kept in mind when updating or creating activities.

James: assertion is removed unless debug mode is used
 
Byron: assert is faster way to demo that assumptions hold. exceptions require IF statements and might require

*Agenda Item #4: Suggesting prioritization of content
TODO: Notes for item #3

byron: trade off between leaving as much conent in there 
erin: providing pathway of absolute essential episodes

rich: 
lessons are in force march nature, everyone had to go same speed
let people go their own speed
agreed to pathway
can have extension/addon actitivies

menglan: 
we don't have to finish of the episodes
there are dependencies among episodes

Rich:
bonus episodes

Byron:
If you are first time instructor, follow these episodes and exercises


*Agenda Item #5: Survey of SWC community members
TODO: Notes for item #4

why do we need 
which lessons 
	are taught?
	need update/retirement

what data is collected currently?

byron:
where did learners get stuck
when lessons were covered/skipped

rich: Could we get lesson usage stats from GitHub?

erin: 
lessons are gettign page visit stats
survey on post instructional experience

rich:
I love the idea of post-workshop surveys as well. We do that with out non-carpentry library workshops here at UVic.
stat is better as surveys usually capture happiest / saddest rpeople


toby:
if anyone in the group is good at webscraping, we may be able to provide a list of workshop website URLs - could pull out the Schedule/Syllabus tables from each site...

rich:
For what it's worth, here's our post workshop survey for learners: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1UVMYnk9pDcvL2j5nNRN6CD2H9MM-WrBcWiRk-sZ_6S8/


*Agenda Item #6: Matters arising
*
james:
lot of issues could have had their own separate meeting
the quiest one was maintainer wanting to amke changes
separating meeting: quick and long term and required resources for long term changes

menglan
brought issues were pretty deep
writing details of each issue and send a week before each meeting so that we could write under each point

byron
Would like to see enhanced discussion on the GH issues before/after the meetings. Given how hard it is to have full discussions and make decisions during a 60 minute block (at most 6 times a year, so 360 minutes of face time)


next meeting
in about 2 months
